Now that I've shown you the
object-oriented version,
we're going to switch
gears and start
talking about the
streams version
and the functional programming
features that it uses.
And as I go along, I'll
try to kind of refer back
to the object-oriented
version to talk about how
the streams approach with
functional programming
overcomes some of those
annoying limitations
that we saw that are tedious
and error-prone to program
with object-oriented approaches.
So this time, we're going
to look at the processStream
and processInput methods.
We're going to visualize
them to see how they behave.
And this will hopefully make
the implementation really easy
to understand.
As you may recall,
processStream searces
a list of input strings, one
string per work of Shakespeare.
We convert that list
of input strings
into a stream of strings.
That stream of
strings is then going
to be connected to the map call.
And map will then call the
processInput method reference
to search for phrases
in each input string.
We'll look at that
implementation
in just a moment.
Notice how map converts
a stream of strings
into a stream of lists
of search results.
So that's a good
example of how map
can transform its input stream
type into a different output
stream type.
We then go ahead
and take that stream
of lists of search results and
call collect, which, as usual,
triggers all the intermediate
operation processing,
and then goes ahead
and creates a list--
actually, an array list--
which will end up being a list
of lists of search results
that are based on
encounter order.
And encounter order
here is just the order
in which the works
of Shakespeare
appeared in the original
list of input strings.
So if, for example, Caesar
came before Hamlet, then
that's the way it would be
in the output order in here
as well.
Now that we talked
about processStream
and visualized it, let's go
and visualize processInput.
So this takes a list
of phrases to find,
and so it converts
the collection
to a sequential stream
by calling stream.
And now we have a
stream of phrases.
And for each phrase,
we're going to call map.
And what map will do is it
will use this lambda expression
to call searchForPhrase,
or searchForPhrase,
passing in the
phrase we're looking
for in the input string--
and some other stuff--
in order to be able to create
a stream of search results.
So wherever we
find matches, we'll
get back search results
that will indicate
where the matches occurred.
Now for this particular
example, if we end up
looking for a phrase like,
"Brevity is the soul of wit,"
it's probably only going
to appear in Hamlet.
It's not going to appear
in Julius Caesar or Macbeth
or Twelfth Night,
or anything else.
So in that case, we'll actually
have a bunch of search results
that would be empty.
So to get rid of
those search results,
we're going to filter
the output of map
so that we can get rid of any
search results that are empty.
So any and all search results
will be removed from the stream
if they have no
result data in them.
So as a result, we'll end up
with a stream of search results
that will have
been winnowed down,
and probably, actually, quite
substantially winnowed down
because certain
phrases in Shakespeare
only appear in one place,
or at most, a few places.
So it would be
unlikely, unless you're
looking for a word like
"the" or "anon", which
is a great Shakespeare word
that appears lots of places.
You're probably going to end
up with lots of empty search
results that you want to get
rid of by filtering them out.
The next thing in the
stream, of course,
is our good friend collect,
terminal operation, which
triggers all the
intermediate processing,
collects everything up into
a list of search results.
And so we'll end up with
a list of search results
that gets returned back
in encounter order.
And in many cases,
as I mentioned,
if there's no matches at all
for the phrases in a given play,
there will be an empty--
the lists that come
back here will be empty.
And we'll talk
later about how we
deal with empty lists
of search results later.
We've talked about how to
deal with empty search results
here by using filter.
And we'll talk
later about how we
deal with empty lists
of search results.
And the way we're
going to do this
is we're going to end up
handling this in a later method
called printPhrases.
And the printPhrases
method will end up
using a cool feature
of flat map in order
to remove all the empty
lists of search results.
So thus far, as you've
undoubtedly noticed,
we've been focusing exclusively
on sequential streams that
have one and only one thread.
We'll cover parallel
streams later.
When we talk about parallel
streams in upcoming weeks,
we will revisit this example.
And we'll show you
just how simple
it is to convert from
a sequential stream
implementation to a parallel
stream implementation.
And in particular, you'll
see that there's just
minuscule changes.
We change stream to
parallel stream, and voila.
We magically now have a
parallel streams approach
which performs much, much better
on modern multicore processors.